Q1: What is Software Architecture?
A1: It defines the structure of a software system — including components, relationships, and design principles that guide development.

Q2: Why is software architecture important?
A2: It ensures scalability, maintainability, and performance, and helps teams manage complexity.

Q3: What are architectural patterns?
A3: Reusable design solutions like MVC, Microservices, Layered, and Event-Driven Architecture.

Q4: What is the MVC pattern?
A4: Model-View-Controller separates the app into:
- Model: Data & logic
- View: UI
- Controller: Handles input & communication between Model and View.

Q5: What is a monolithic architecture?
A5: A single large codebase where all components (UI, business logic, database) are tightly coupled.

Q6: What is microservices architecture?
A6: Breaking an app into small, independent services that communicate through APIs.

Q7: What is an API Gateway?
A7: A single entry point for managing and routing requests to multiple backend services.

Q8: What is middleware architecture?
A8: A layer between OS and applications that manages communication, authentication, or logging.

Q9: What is client-server architecture?
A9: A model where the client requests resources and the server provides responses.

Q10: What is a layered architecture?
A10: Divides an app into layers such as presentation, business, and data access for better separation of concerns.

Q11: What is a service-oriented architecture (SOA)?
A11: Systems are designed as independent services that communicate using standard protocols like HTTP or SOAP.

Q12: What are design principles in architecture?
A12: Principles like SOLID, DRY (Don’t Repeat Yourself), and KISS (Keep It Simple, Stupid).

Q13: What is dependency injection?
A13: A design pattern where dependencies are provided from outside instead of being created inside a class.
Example (Node.js):
class UserService { constructor(db) { this.db = db; } }

Q14: What is the difference between architecture and design?
A14: Architecture focuses on high-level structure; design focuses on low-level implementation details.

Q15: What are system scalability types?
A15: 
- Vertical scaling: Adding more power (CPU/RAM).
- Horizontal scaling: Adding more servers.

Q16: What is a distributed system?
A16: A system where components are located on different networked computers but work together as one.

Q17: What is caching and why is it used?
A17: Storing frequently used data temporarily to reduce load times and improve performance.
Example: Redis or in-memory caching.
